---
---
# Takeaways from animal behaviors applied to robotics

From the study of animal behaviors, some major points were extracted
that could be applied on the development of behaviors for robots:

-   Reflexive behaviors are “hardwired,” meaning that there can be a
    direct connection between sensory data and actions, reducing
    computation costs.
-   The internal state of the agent may have a rol on the release of
    behaviors, such as being hungry or being low on battery.
-   Behaviors can be innate (pre-programmed) or can be learned.
-   Behaviors can be sequenced to perform more complex behaviors.
-   We can use Boolean’s to simulate the IRM and control the release of
    behaviors.
-   Some behaviors may need only affordances for they release. This can
    help us reduce computational costs.
-   We can use schema theory [20211229200605](/notes/20211229200605) as a base for
    implementing behaviors using OOP.
-   Behavior are inherently distributed and concurrent.
-   The combination of different outputs of different behaviors is one
    of the mayor decisions. These can be canceled, combined,
    prioritized, etc.

## Notes References

[20211217210733](/notes/20211217210733) Behaviors as the building block of intelligence

[sche](/notes/sche)

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20211217203220](/notes/20211217203220) INDEX - Artificial Intelligence

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
