---
---
# Behaviors as the building block of intelligence

Behaviors are a mapping between sensory data to some motor actions in
order to achieve a task. These can be divided into three types:

-   **Reflexive behaviors**: stimulus-response, innate. These can be
    further divided into:
    -   Reflexes: the response last as long as the stimulus does.
    -   Taxes: the response is to move to a certain orientation.
    -   Fixed action pattern: the response continues longer than the
        stimulus.
-   **Reactive behaviors**: learned and then consolidated through
    repetition to become unconscious.
-   **Conscious behaviors**: deliberative behaviors

Behaviors are coordinated and controlled by an **innate releasing
mechanism**, which presupposes a specific stimulus for a certain
response.

We can use schema theory [20211229200605](/notes/20211229200605) as a tool for mapping
sensing and action on behaviors.

Behaviors study served as a key to introduce a new paradigm on the
development of robotics [20211229192654](/notes/20211229192654).

## Perception

On behaviors, perception serves two major functions: to release
behaviors and to provide information needed for a behavior to be
accomplished. Neisser defined two different types of perception systems
on the brain:

-   Direct perception: uses **affordances** (perceivable potentiality on
    the environment), low structures on the brain. For example,
    detecting red color.
-   Recognition: need mental models to distinguish information.
    Recognize some chair as my chair.

## How behaviors are learned

-   **Innate**: born with it.
-   **Sequence of innate**: also worn with them, but they are sequenced.
-   **Innate with memory**: born with them, but they need some kink of
    initialization, such as the environment.
-   **Learned**: they are not born with them but they are acquired by
    learning.

## Notes References

[20211217203347](/notes/20211217203347) Intelligent agent

[20211229192654](/notes/20211229192654) Takeaways from animal behaviors applied to
robotics

[20211217203220](/notes/20211217203220) INDEX - Artificial Intelligence

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
