---
---
# Robotics Basics - Representation

Representation is the form in the information is stored in the robot,
deciding what and how it is represented. To show how a task or a goal
can be performed depending on the information that is being stored in
the robot let’s see an example such as navigation.
[20210714190242](/notes/20210714190242)

## Example: navigation and world-models

Information about the world is usually called the world model, usually
stored as a map. This information is crucial, and allows us to perform
many actions that can help the robot on it’s main goal, such as deciding
the path to our goal. Also, there is many ways in which we can store the
information about the world, and deciding what and how to store it
provides many ways to resolve the task of navigation:

-   Odometry: remembering the exact path taken (went 3m straight, turned
    45 degrees clock-wise, moved another 3m…)
-   Landmark based: store sequence of moves on landmarks of the
    environment (turned left at the first junction, right at the second)
-   Topological: store landmarks and the links between them.
-   Metric: store the exact length of the place and use it to “draw” the
    world.

## What can a robot store information about

A robot can store information about many different things, or as we said
earlier, a robot can have many world-models based on many different
things:

-   Information about the robot itself
-   Information about the environment
-   Information about objects in the world
-   Information about specific actions
-   Information about tasks

It is, however, of vital importance, not only to obtain and store
information about different models, but also to keep them accurate and
updated. Also, the more information is stored and the more complex it
is, the greater the computational cost, so a balance has to be kept to
not make tasks very computationally expensive.

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20210711200423](/notes/20210711200423) Robotics Basics - Control Architectures

[20210714190242](/notes/20210714190242) Robotics Basics - Navigation

## References
