---
---
# Robotics Locomotion - Basics

Locomotion is the movement from place to place. Although this definition
is quite simple, and in nature this is easily achieved, in the robotics
field this is a big problem and is a very important line of research in
current academia.

In nature, the most common system used is legs, but in robotics this is
a problem because of:

-   The amount of Degrees of Freedom is high, making it more difficult
    to control the robot. [20210516203846](/notes/20210516203846)
-   Need to maintain stability in the robot.

Although there is some research and work done using 4 or 6 legs, which
is the easier way to add legs to a robot, it is more common to find
robots that use wheels to move.

## Wheels and steering

Wheels are more common because they remove the problem of maintaining
stability and because they are more simple. The usual way to control
these wheels are by using either differential drive or differential
steer.

In differential drive, each wheel has an independent motor. I contrast,
in differential steer wheels are attach to a single motor, but they can
rotate at a different rate by using gears.

## Path vs Getting to a place

Path planing is a very demanding computational problem that has many
variables to take in consideration: where the robot is located, where it
needs to go, how is the world, is there any obstacle, is there a shorter
path… This complex problem is in itself another line of research.

In contrast, sometime there is no need to make a path to a certain
place. We can let the robot move in the world until it arrives to the
desired position. This is called navigation. [20210714190242](/notes/20210714190242)

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20210514185045](/notes/20210514185045) Robotic Effectors and Actuators - Basics

[20210516203846](/notes/20210516203846) Robotics Degrees of Freedom - Basics

[20210714190242](/notes/20210714190242) Robotics Basics - Navigation

## References
