---
---
# Schema theory and behaviors

A schema is a way of representing a basic unity of activity, consistent
on both the knowledge of how to act and perceive and the process to
complete the activity. In terms of programming, it has the information
needed and the algorithms for perceiving and acting. This allows us to
map behaviors into computer programs so we can more easily define and
program them [20211229192654](/notes/20211229192654).

A behavior schema is composed by two subschemas: one for sensing call
**perceptual** schema and one for acting called the **motor** schema. It
is activated by releasers, and it can be easily adapted to Object
Oriented Programming [20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757).

Complex behaviors can be expressed as a schema that calls other
behaviors. Also, the selection of different schemas for perceiving or
action can be accommodated into the OOP type of programming by creating
functions that decide which option to select given the current state of
the environment or internal state.

On sense schemas, a technique commonly used is sensor fusing
[20220121192933](/notes/20220121192933).

## Notes References

[20211229192654](/notes/20211229192654) Takeaways from animal behaviors applied to
robotics

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20220121192933](/notes/20220121192933) Sensor fusing

[20211217203220](/notes/20211217203220) INDEX - Artificial Intelligence

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
