---
---
# Robotics Basics - Reactive Paradigm

Reactive control appeared as a paradigm in opposition to deliberative
control [20210711201454](/notes/20210711201454). Reactive architectures have no planning
part, little to no internal representation and minimal state. The
sensors measurements are mapped to an action in the effectors, similar
to reflexes, and they need to have the actions in **mutually exclusive
conditions** (only one actions is triggered), every possible state has
to be mapped with an action. However, as states become more and more
complex, this becomes an impossible task, and to do the mapping a set of
**rules** is used.

**Sense —&gt; Action**

Action selection can be either a single one decided by the rules or a
fusion of multiple actions together if they all satisfy the rules
specified. Also, it’s very important to monitor different rules at the
same time, so **parallelism** becomes very important in reactive
architectures.

## Sensing and data in reactive architectures

In reactive architectures, sensing and data representations are local to
each behavior, without a central model. Each behavior can have a
specific data representation for what is sensing, but again, this is
local to each behavior.

## Reactive architecture and behaviors

Behaviors [20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) are a commonly used on reactive
architectures as a way to map sensor readings into actions, although
some hybrid architectures can also be defined using them.

Common characteristic’s of reactive architectures that use behaviors
(and usually also on those who don’t):

-   Robots are agent operating in an ecological niche
-   Behaviors serve as the basic building block for robotic actions, and
    the overall behavior is emergent [20210713103850](/notes/20210713103850)
-   Only local, behaviors specific sensing is permitted
-   Systems inherently follow good software design principles
-   Animal models of behavior are often cited as a basis for these
    systems or for a particular behavior

## Example of architectures

-   [20220105193907](/notes/20220105193907) Subsumption Architecture
-   [20220105194232](/notes/20220105194232) Potential field methodologies

## Notes References

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20210711200423](/notes/20210711200423) Robotics Basics - Control Paradigms

[20210713103850](/notes/20210713103850) Robotics - Emergent behaviors

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000) (Matariâc 2007)

Matariâc, Maja J. 2007. *The Robotics Primer*. Intelligent Robotics and
Autonomous Agents Series. Cambridge, Mass: The MIT Press.

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
