---
---
# Robotics Basics - Reactive Architecture

Reactive control appeared as an architecture in opposition to
deliberative control. Reactive architectures have no planning part, and
little to no internal representation and minimal state. The sensors
measurements are mapped to an action in the effectors, similar to
reflexes, and they need to have the actions in **mutually exclusive
conditions** (only one actions is triggered), every possible state has
to be mapped with an action. However, as states become more and more
complex, this becomes an impossible task, and to do the mapping a set of
**rules** is used.

**Sense —&gt; Action**

Action selection can be either a single one decided by the rules or a
fusion of multiple actions together if they all satisfy the rules
specified. Also, it’s very important to monitor different rules at the
same time, so **parallelism** becomes very important in reactive
architectures.

## Subsumption Architecture

Subsumption architecture is a reactive architecture, where to build
complex systems we will use an incremental approach, were we will start
from the simple parts and we will build up in the hierarchy to the
complex parts by using already existing components.

The architecture will be build on modules/layers, where every layer is
responsible of achieving a certain task. For example, we will build
first layer 0, which is responsible of moving the robot, and then we
will build layer 1, that makes the robot avoid obstacles, reusing
components of layer 0. The upper layers, as they are more complex and
take many things in consideration, an disable inferior layers in order
to achieve the robot goals.

There is not an specific answer about how the layers have to be
designed, as many approaches can be taken with good results.

PRINCIPLES: - Systems are built from bottom-up - Components are
task-achieving - Components can be executed in parallel - Components are
organized in layers - Lower layers handle basic task - Newly added
layers use existing ones - No internal model

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20210711200423](/notes/20210711200423) Robotics Basics - Control Architectures

## References
