---
---
# Robotics Basics - Navigation

Although having a simple definition, which is, finding the way in the
environment to a certain place, **navigation** is one of the most
important tasks and problem that the robotics field has studied and
worked on. Navigation has a lot of minor problems/tasks that have to be
acomplished in order to properly navigate the environment:

-   Localization: finding where you are
-   Search: looking at the goal location
-   Path planning: planning how to reach the goal
-   Coverage: covering all of an area
-   SLAM: localization and mapping at the same time

## Localization

Process of figuring out where the robot is currently in a certain model
of the environment, using sensor measurements and keeping track of the
actual movement of the robot, to keep updating and computing the actual
position.

## Searching and path planning

To perform path planning, the robot needs to know both it’s location and
the location of the goal in the environment, and if those are both
known, finding a path it’s a well understood problem, What it’s
difficult it’s to achieve the most optimal path, which can be very time
consuming, and sometimes it’s not even taken in consideration as long as
a path to achieve the goal is computed. Other times, the path computed
it’s not to the final goal but to a more near place in the map, and it’s
calculated in batches until the final goal is achieved.

## SLAM

SLAM it’s a really hard problem in the field, as it has to perform two
processes simultaneously: figuring out where you are and constructing
the map of the environment. The major problem here is the difficulty on
differentiating very similar places that can be considered as ambiguos.

## Coverage

Covering an area can be a problem here you have or not a map. If you
have a map, this becomes a search problem, which has been studied in the
field of Computer Science and AI and has some ways to solve it, but
rather slowly. if you have not, then the robot has to move on a
systematic way to cover all the environment, which can be very difficult
as the environment may have very complex areas.

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References
