---
---
# Robotics Manipulation - Basics

Manipulation is the movement that the robot has to do in order to
accomplish a certain goal, affecting and changing with this movement the
environment. A basic example of this is what a robotic arm has to do in
order to move an object from one place to another.

The endeffector is the part of the manipulator that affects the world.
The movement of this part is quite complex, as it has to also take in
consideration the arm and the body where it’s attached.

## Kinematics and inverse kinematics

Kinematics is the correspondence between actuator motion and the
resulting effector motion in the world. In order to make this
calculation, you need to establish rules to define where is the effector
in relation to the arm and how are the joints related to each other.
These joints are usually rotatory, so we use the angles for the
mathematics.

Inverse kinematics is the inverse problem. Given a point, what are the
angles that we have to achieve in order to make the endeffector move to
that point. Inverse kinematics are used commonly in the robotics field,
although it has the problem of being quite expensive to calculate.

Kinematics – Given the joints angles, where is the end effector Inverse
kinematics – Given a point in the space, which angles we need to get
there

## Other problems and subfields

Manipulation of objects is so broad that many other problems and
subfields have emerged. For example, dynamics is the properties of
motion and energy of a given object, a problem that is even more complex
and computationally expensive. Other examples of subfields are: grasp
points of the endeffector in an object, grasp strength of the
endeffector…

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20210514185045](/notes/20210514185045) Robotic Effectors and Actuators - Basics

## References
