---
---
# Robotics Sensors - Basics

**Sensors are devices in the robot used to measure properties of the
world**, either of the robot or of the environment. It’s very important
to take in consideration that this measurements of the environment have
to be computed to obtain actual information, and this is called sensor
processing. The transformation from sensor output to intelligent
responses is called signal-to-symbol.

The biggest deal when measuring the environment is called uncertainty.
We are unable to be sure about the state of the world and the robot,
since every sensor has in it’s measurement some error and noise, but we
can address this by using a sensor model to interprete the data
measurements [20220228202551](/notes/20220228202551).

An abstraction of sensors can be used to facilitate working with them on
behaviors [20220202200212](/notes/20220202200212).

Designing a sensor suit for a robot is a crucial step on it’s design,
and it has to be seriously and precisely defined [20220202202133](/notes/20220202202133).

## Sensor information

Sensors can provides us with three different types of information:

-   **Propioception**: referred to an internal frame of reference, like
    the amount of rotation performed by a wheel.
-   **Extereoception**: referred to the layout of the environment.
-   **Exproprioception**: position of the robot relative to the
    environment.

Many different sensors exist right now, from simple
[20210523205724](/notes/20210523205724) to very complex ones [20210523205908](/notes/20210523205908), and
the more complex they are, the more processing is needed. Also, we can
use different sensors together to obtain more information about
something by using sensors fusion [20220121192933](/notes/20220121192933).

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20220202200212](/notes/20220202200212) Logic sensors abstractions

[20220121192933](/notes/20220121192933) Sensor fusion

[20220202202133](/notes/20220202202133) On designing a sensor suit for a robot

## References

(Murphy 2000) (Matariâc 2007)

Matariâc, Maja J. 2007. *The Robotics Primer*. Intelligent Robotics and
Autonomous Agents Series. Cambridge, Mass: The MIT Press.

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
