---
---
# Robotics Feedback Control - Basics

**Feedback control** is the means of how a system gets to achieve a
desired state by comparing the current state with the desired one
continuously. Usually implemented and used at a low level, for
controlling actuators like wheels.

Given the actual state and the desired state as points in a set, the
**error** would be the difference between those two states. Knowing the
magnitud and the direction of the error we can then calculate the
actions that have to be performed in order to reduce the error and get
closer to the desired state.

The **feedback** is the information that is sent back to the controller.

When the desired state is achieved, you can be done and not perform any
additional action or you can try to maintain it continuously.

The **sampling rate** is the rate of computing and sensing in a given
unit of time.

The **gains** are the parameters that determine the magnitude of the
system response. These are calibrated and tested by trial and error.

**Damping** is the process of systematically reducing oscillations. The
robot actions have an error, which can make the state to oscillate, and
to reduce them, you have to properly calibrate the **gains**.

## Types of feedback control

**P - PD - PID**

Note: K corresponds to a constant, dependent on each system.

-   P: Proportional control. The systems responds in proportion to the
    error using direction and magnitude.

    *o* = *K*<sub>*p*</sub>*i*

-   D: Derivative control. The system responds to the derivative error,
    the momentum changes when close to the desired state.

    $o=K\_d\\frac{di}{dt}$

-   I: Integral control. The systems keeps track of its own errors and
    over time responds to correct them.

    *o* = *K*<sub>*i*</sub>∫*i*(*t*)*d**t*

-   PD: Proportional + Derivative

    $o=K\_pi+K\_d\\frac{di}{dt}$

-   PID: Proportional + Derivative + Integral

    $o=K\_pi+K\_d\\frac{di}{dt}+K\_i\\int i(t)dt$

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References
