---
---
# Sonar Sensors - Basics

Ultrasonic references the frequencies of sound that are above the range
that the human can hear. A sonar uses these ultrasonic sounds to find
the place of the robot in the environment, using a technique called
**echolocation**. Echolocation works in this way: a sonar has an emitter
and a receiver. The emitter sends the ultrasonic sounds, which bounces
on the surface of the objects in the environment and comes back to the
receiver. The amount of time since the emission (time-of-flight) and
reception of the sounds is used to calculate the distance.

There are, however, many things that have to be considered when working
with sonar. The key point that has to be addressed is that the direction
of the bounce depends on many variables, (angle of incidence on the
surface, surface smoothness, etc), and some sounds that bounce from a
surface can never come back to the sonar even or come after bouncing
from many different surfaces (**specular reflection**). To deal with
this, some solutions that can be used are:

-   Smooth the surfaces of the objects of the environment
-   Use multiple sonar sensors sensing at different directions
-   Use more processing power

Other problems include:

-   **Foreshorting**: sonars work on a certain cone, and the reflection
    on a non-perpendicular surface may create an error where one side of
    the cone receives measurements earlier than the other.
-   **Cross-talk**: when dealing with rig configurations of sonars, some
    of the waves reflected because of the specular reflection may arrive
    to another sonar receiver, causing false readings.

In order to deal with specular reflection easily, one can use instead
laser sensors at the cost of more power and money
[20210602191021](/notes/20210602191021).

## Notes References

[20210523205908](/notes/20210523205908) Robotics Complex Sensors - Basics

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20210602191021](/notes/20210602191021) Laser Sensors - Basics

## References

(Matariâc 2007) (Murphy 2000)

Matariâc, Maja J. 2007. *The Robotics Primer*. Intelligent Robotics and
Autonomous Agents Series. Cambridge, Mass: The MIT Press.

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
