---
---
# Robotics Motors - Basics

Motors are the most common actuator in the robotics world, providing
rotational movement that can be or not transformed in lineal movement by
using several mechanic elements, like gears. They are typically used
with wheels, but can be also used with other effectors.

They work by converting electricity into mechanical energy, by using
magnets, loops of wire and electric current. The current has to work in
the appropriate voltage, or it wil not provide enough power or will make
the motor to break sooner if it’s too high. The current that is draw is
proportional to the work that is done.

The amount of power is proportional to:

-   Torque: rotational force.
-   Rotational velocity.

## Gearing

Gearing is a mechanism that is used to change the speed and torque of
motors. The design and quality of the gear is what affects the error in
the gear movement, and also to the energy wasted in the mechanism.

-   A small to large gear reduces the speed but increases the torque.
-   A large to small gear reduces the torque but increases the speed.

## DC and Servo motors

DC Motors are motors that move continuously in one direction.

A servo motor is a DC motor that can move to a particular position. They
use gear reduction and a position sensor to determine the position by
using an electric circuit. The electric signal that the servo receives
is used to determine the amount of turn that is needed, creating a
waveform where the duration of the pulse determines the movement. The
width of the pulse is what determines the movement, so it is needed to
be very precise to reduce the amount of error.

## Rotation measurement

If we want to measure the rotation of the motor, we can use an infra-red
sensor to measure both the amount of rotation and the direction, using
shaft encoders. [20210528204840](/notes/20210528204840)

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20210514185045](/notes/20210514185045) Robotic Effectors and Actuators - Basics

[20210528204840](/notes/20210528204840) Infra-red sensors are used in motors as shaft
encoders to keep track of rotation

## References
