---
---
# Robotics Basics - Hybrid Paradigm

Hybrid architectures are a combination of deliberative
[20210711201454](/notes/20210711201454) and reactive [20210711201545](/notes/20210711201545)
architectures. There is a middle layer between both parts that links
them together and decides whether to choose one or another or a mixture
of both to select the actions to perform.

**PLAN; then SENSE -&gt; ACT**

Sensing is truly hibrid, as models are needed on planing and faster
sensing is required for more reactive actions. Behaviors
[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757), rather than refer to purely reactive ones, now
refer to also more complex ones, although this may cause some confusion
(some architectures can use different terminologies to refer to
different types of behaviors.)

The challenge for these architecture is to achieve the right compromise
between these two layers. This is, indeed, a hard task, but this middle
layer allows us to perform thing such as:

-   Deal with changes in the world when reactive architectures can’t
    proceed
-   Create a plan and follow it until reactive can’t proceed, and the
    replan.
-   Avoid constantly replaning by storing plans as intermediate actions
-   Pre-plan things in advance

To have a successful hybrid architecture, a feature that is mandatory is
the ability to perform asynchronous processing and multithreading or
multitasking. Heavy computational tasks are performed one one thread and
quick process and update are done on another thread separately, to deal
with environment changes, for example while planing the goal next to the
actual one.

## Hybrid architectures: differences and common elements

The main differences on hybrid architectures is how they deal with the
following questions:

-   How to distinguish reaction and deliberation
-   How to organize responsibilities on deliberation
-   How to decide the overall behavior. We have the same as in reactive
    architecture, but the addition of a deliberation layer provides with
    more complex ways like fuzzy logic, voting or filtering.

Some common elements of this architecture are:

-   Sequencer: generates sequences of behaviors
-   Resource manager: allocates resources to behaviors
-   Cartographer: responsable of map information
-   Mission planner: interacts with humans and decides the next mission
    plan
-   Performance monitoring and problem solving agent

## Styles of hybrid architectures

-   **Managerial**: Higher layers do high level planning that is passed
    to inferior layers that refine and gather resources to bottom
    layers. Higher layers can see results from lower layers, and lower
    layers can ask for more information/help to the top layers.
    -   AuRA Architecture
    -   Sensor Fusing Effects (SFX)
-   **State-hierarchy**: Organize architectures by scope of time
    knowledge: PAST, PRESENT and FUTURE, with 3 layers of knowledge that
    interact with each other.
    -   3T architecture
-   **Model oriented**: Use a global world model for sensing and
    actuation, using this model not only for planning but to pass
    sensing information to behaviors, like a virtual sensor.It is
    similar to the hierarchical paradigm, but the model is adapted to
    hybrid architectures
    -   Saphira architecture
    -   TCA architecture

## Notes References

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20210711200423](/notes/20210711200423) Robotics Basics - Control Paradigm

## References

(Matariâc 2007) (Murphy 2000)

Matariâc, Maja J. 2007. *The Robotics Primer*. Intelligent Robotics and
Autonomous Agents Series. Cambridge, Mass: The MIT Press.

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
