---
---
# Robot navigation - Localization

Process of figuring out where the robot is currently in a certain model
of the environment, using sensor measurements and keeping track of the
actual movement of the robot, to keep updating and computing the actual
position.

Localization can be performed using different kinds of techniques, and
heavily realies on using exteroception to match current preceptions of
the world with past observations, updating the map after that. This
matching usually is really hard, and usually wha are computed are a set
of possible locations called **poses**.

Some techniques used for localization are:

-   Iconic [20220228202048](/notes/20220228202048) : usage of an occupancy grid and
    direct measures of the environment.
-   Feature based: use extracted features, similar to distinctive places
    [20220221202140](/notes/20220221202140)

## General localization approach.

-   Create a local occupancy grid from past *n* readings.
-   Every *n* readings, match the local grid with the global occupancy
    grid.
-   Do this *k* times, one for every pose generated taking in
    consideration the translation and rotation (pose generation has to
    convert from a continuous range of *k* poses into a discrete finite
    one).
-   Do the matching algorithm for selecting the best pose, taking in
    consideration uncertainty.
-   When the best match is selected, set this as the current position
    and repeat the process.

## Notes References

[20210714190242](/notes/20210714190242) Robotics Basics - Navigation

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000) (Matariâc 2007)

Matariâc, Maja J. 2007. *The Robotics Primer*. Intelligent Robotics and
Autonomous Agents Series. Cambridge, Mass: The MIT Press.

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
