---
---
# Associative methods for topological path planning

Associative methods for topological path planning [20220209184809](/notes/20220209184809)
rely on the assumption that a location or landmark has:

-   Perceptual stability: views of the location from nearby places
    should look similar.
-   Perceptual distinguishability: views far away should look different.

We can create a behavior that converts sensor observation into the
direction to reach a particular landmark. This shares the idea of
**neighborhood** of relational methods [20220221202140](/notes/20220221202140) but relies
heavily on computer vision.

## Example of techniques

**Visual homing**: partition images on sections, and for each section
examine and measure some attributes. Patterns in the neighborhood will
be similar, and we can use this patterns to either turn right or left.

**Qual nav**: localize the robot to a particular orientation of a given
pair of landmarks boundaries. Instead of localizing to a certain
landmark, localizing to a pair will always provide the same orientation
on a certain neighborhood.

## Advantages and disadvantages

-   ADV: tight coupling between sensing to homing.
-   DISADV: more power and memory required.
-   DISADV: brittle to changes on the environment of landmarks.

## Notes References

[20220209184809](/notes/20220209184809) Topological path planning

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
