---
---
# Implementing behaviors using schema theory and OOP

We can easily define and implement behaviors using schema theory and
Object Oriented Programming. The basic idea is to have a Schema class
with three derived classes: Perceptual Schema, Motor Schema and
Behavior. The Schema class will only have an optional method to control
any other methods or schemas on that class.

-   **Perceptual Schemas** have, at least, one function that takes some
    input data and returns a **percept**.
-   **Motor Schemas** have, at least, one function that takes a percept
    as input and returns some data that represents an action.
-   **Behaviors** have, at least, one perceptual and one motor schema,
    and acts as the placeholder for local data.
    -   Behaviors can be primitive behaviors, which have only one
        perceptual and one motor schema.
    -   Behaviors can have multiple schemas or behaviors, acting as an
        “abstract behavior” for coordination.
-   **Releasers** are implemented as separated perceptual schemas not
    tied to any motor schemas. Coordination of the releasers is
    implemented on the control method of the behavior, which will
    activate the proper motor schema when the releaser is satisfied.

## Abstract behaviors and assemblage of behaviors

As stated before, abstract behaviors are used to encapsulate how to
coordinate different behaviors that hace to be executed secuencialy or
in parallel. However, for the formal representation, there are different
ways to do so:

-   **Skills**. Collect behaviors as a Reaction-Action Packages and
    combines them in a “sketchy plan.” → Need more info, investigate
    further
-   **Finite State Automatas**. States determine a list of behaviors
    that are active. The releasers act as the input and the transition
    functions specifies next state for the given state and input.
-   **Scripts**. A similar mechanism like FSA that uses templates of
    behaviors to abstract, using a causal-chain and a if-else chain
    (causal chain) to specify the main sequence of behaviors, which can
    be extended by using other sub-scripts → Need more info, investigate
    further

## Notes References

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20211229200605](/notes/20211229200605) Schema theory and behaviors

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
