---
---
# Robot map exploration

Map exploration tries to answer the question fo where I haven’t been,
given a map, and how to cover an unexplored area.

A basic behavioral approach is to do this randomly, or avoid explored
areas to get into new ones. These are valid techniques, but of course
inefficient ones. Another behavioral approach may be to use information
of an occupancy grid [20220228202048](/notes/20220228202048) to define new goals, but
although easy to implement, this can also be innefficient.

Fo this, two basic techniques have been developed that work very well on
indoor environments:

-   Frontier based exploration.
-   Generalized Voronoi graphs.

# Frontier based exploration

This techniques uses bayesian-dampster grids fro creating the map. When
a robot enters a new area, there is a boundary between each area sensed
and areas that are open and unsensed. These form lines called frontiers,
and these fronteiers can be used to select, from many possible
frontiers, the next one to explore, such as the closest one or the
biggest one (calculating the centroids as the new goal)

# General voroni graphs

When moving and using Voronoi Graphs for representing the world
[20220209184858](/notes/20220209184858), the robot generates and follows path, but when
presented with an open area or a dead end, multiple paths are created.
Since on dead ends we know that this graphs end at objects, we mark
those as not to follow, and we can backtrack and search for the open
ones as the next to explore

## Notes References

[20210714190242](/notes/20210714190242) Robotics Basics - Navigation

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
