---
---
# HIMM map making and localization

HIMM is a simple method specialized for sonars that can have vet good
results for obstacle avoidance at a much lower cost that other
techniques such as bayesian models [20220301203202](/notes/20220301203202).

HIMM is based on the sonar model [20220228203000](/notes/20220228203000), but only
measures along the accoustic axis. It uses integers from 0 to 15 (can be
stored on only 1 byte), and the updates are -1 for region empty and +3
for region occupied.

The update algorith is:
*g**r**i**d*\[*i*\]\[*j*\] = *g**r**i**d*\[*i*\]\[*j*\] + *I*; 0 ≤ *g**r**i**d*\[*i*\]\[*j*\] ≤ 15
I = +3 if occupied, I = -1 if empty. So, for a measured reading on a
cell, other cells will get an update of empty since are on the way to
the occupied cell.

The reliability of the algorithm comes from, although measuring only the
accoustic axis, measurements are quicker and with less delay, meaning
more measurements and less gaps between each measurement.

## Growth rate operator

One disadvantage is that some elements of the grid may get a few
measurements that store a lower number that what really should be. Small
obstacles also present a small profile on the grid. For this, HIMM uses
a mechanism called Grwoth Rate Operator, where an extra step is used
with a mask that checks neighbours to add the weight to the sensed
element.

This has the advantage that obstacles are detected more easily, but
false readings may persist longer since they have bigger numbers that
have to decrease.

## Notes References

[20220228202048](/notes/20220228202048) Iconic localization and map making

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
