---
---
# Dempster-shafter theory

Dempster-shafter theory produces similar results to bayesian
probabilities [20220301203417](/notes/20220301203417), but whereas Bayes relies on
evidence being represented by probability function, Dempster represents
evidence as a **probabilistic** function, where this function represents
**partial evidence**. For example, when detecting an object *H*, we may
be not detecting the entire object because some occlusion, and the
possibility of the object may be higher than what we have now. Belief
functions are combined using Dempster’s rule, and it indicates a term
when multiple observations disagree, called **conflict metric**.

## Belief functions

Belief functions measure the belief mass of a set of propositions called
the *frame of discernment* (FOD). For example, for the evidence of a
grid cell being occupied or not, bayes states that either be occupied
(*H*) or not (¬*H*). For Dempster, the FOD *θ* = {*H*, ¬*H*}, but the
belief mass can be distributed on combinations of all the propositions,
they are not mutually exclusive. We have 4 different combinations,
$H, \\neg H, \\empty$ and *θ*, where $\\empty$ represents the empty set
and *θ* represents both, or in other words, that we **don’t know**.

For a given belief function, we have three conditions:

-   $Bel(\\empty) = 0$. There cannot be any mass for the empty set,
    since, although there may be ambiguos, observations happen.
-   *B**e**l*(*θ*) = 1. All observations are contained on the in the set
    that has all elements.
-   $Bel(A\_1,...,A\_n) = \\sum\_{I \\subset \\{1,...,n\\};I\\neq\\empty} {(-1)^{|I|+1} Bel(\\bigcap\_{i \\epsilon I} A\_i)}$.
    More than one belief function contributing evidence cam be summed,
    and the result may be higher after the summation.

## Dempster rule of combination

Dempster rule of combination is one of the many ways for combining
belief functions. For two given combinations or more, the combination of
both, also called joint mass, is calculated:

-   *m*<sub>(</sub>1, 2)(*θ*) = 0
-   $m\_(1,2)=(m\_1\\oplus m\_2)(A)=\\frac{1}{1-K}\\sum\_{B \\cap C=A;A\\neq\\phi}m\_1(B)\\cdot m\_2(C)$
    ; where *K* is the amount of conflict measured by
    $K=\\sum{B \\cap C = \\empty}m\_1(B)\\cdot m\_2(C)$

*B* ∩ *C* = *A* stands for every combination that results on an
intersection that is *A*. $B \\cap C = \\empty$ is every combination
that results on an empty set. Since empty sets cant happen, a
normalization is needed ($\\frac{1}{1 - K}$) to distribute the mass on
the other possible combinations. K stands for the measure of conflict.

## Notes References

[20220301203417](/notes/20220301203417) Bayes theorem

[20220301203617](/notes/20220301203617) INDEX - Probabilities and statistics

## References
