---
---
# Subsumption Architecture

Subsumption architecture is a reactive architecture
[20210711201545](/notes/20210711201545), where to build complex systems we will use an
incremental approach, were we will start from the simple parts and we
will build up in the hierarchy to the complex parts by using already
existing components.

The architecture will be build on modules/layers, where every layer is
responsible of achieving a certain task, and work similarly as Finite
State Machines do. For example, we will build first layer 0, which is
responsible of moving the robot, and then we will build layer 1, that
makes the robot avoid obstacles, reusing components of layer 0. The
upper layers, as they are more complex and take many things in
consideration, an disable inferior layers in order to achieve the robot
goals.

There is not an specific answer about how the layers have to be
designed, as many approaches can be taken with good results.

PRINCIPLES: - Systems are built from bottom-up, in layers of competence
- Components are task-achieving - Components can be executed in parallel
- Components are organized in layers - Upper layers can subsume/override
output from lower layers - Lower layers handle basic task - Newly added
layers use existing ones - No internal model

Subsumption architecture can be effectively designed using behaviors
[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757). Usually, layers are composed by many different
behaviors who accomplish a task, and they work as an abstract behavior.

## Notes References

[20210711201545](/notes/20210711201545) Robotics Basics - Reactive Paradigm

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
