---
---
# Potential field methodologies

In potential field methodologies, behaviors [20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) are
described as vectors and use vector summation to combine the output of
different behaviors. For example, the output vector of a “move-forward”
and a “avoid obstacle” would be combined, defining the movement vector.

## Potential field

Potential fields area arrays that represent the world on an (x,y) grid,
and on every cell of the world there is a vector that represents a
force, like in a magnetic or gravitation field.

There are 5 types of primitive fields:

-   Uniform: same everywhere
-   Perpendicular: perpendicular to object/wall
-   Attraction: vectors point to object
-   Repulsion: vectors point away of object
-   Tangential: vectors spin around object

Magnitudes of the vectors are defined using magnitude profiles. These
magnitudes can be describe on many different ways, such as constant,
linear, exponential…

Programming of potential fields can be easily done bu thinking of each
field as a single function.

## Behavior combination

As stated before, the combination of behaviors is done by perfomring a
summation of the vectors. However, some key points have to be taken in
consideration:

-   The update rate of the robot will determine if the robot overshoots
    or not the goal, as the magnitude changes the velocity vector.
-   The ability to perform certain movements for the robot has to be
    taken in consideration. Instantaneous changes on direction/velocity
    may not be possible.
-   There can be some points where the sum of the vectors produce a 0.0
    vector, producing a local minima where the robot cannot move from.
    Solutions for these are: use small random vectors; implement the
    “avoid” behavior as an intelligent behavior that receives all other
    vectors as input (Navigation-Templates); harmonic functions
    (expensive)

## Notes References

[20210711201545](/notes/20210711201545) Robotics Basics - Reactive Paradigm

[20211217202757](/notes/20211217202757) Robot behaviors

[20210514183815](/notes/20210514183815) INDEX - Robotics

## References

(Murphy 2000)

Murphy, Robin. 2000. *Introduction to AI Robotics*. Intelligent Robotics
and Autonomous Agents. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
